collab tools: document cert linking/updating in EGI SSO (#507)
EGI-Federation/documentation: content/en/internal/collaboration-tools/sso/_index.md

---
title: "EGI SSO"
type: docs
weight: 20
description: "EGI SSO usage"
---

[EGI SSO](https://sso.egi.eu) is a legacy central Identity Provider mainly
intended to access the [EGI Collaboration Tools](../../collaboration-tools).

> For most services people should look into using federated authentication via
> [EGI Check-in](../../../users/aai/check-in).

> Still, for some services not yet integrated with Check-in, an EGI SSO account
> should be used, in that case you can
> [create an EGI SSO account](https://sso.egi.eu/admin/email).

## Features

- Central Identity Provider allowing to access EGI Collaboration Tools

> - SSO group management

Reviewer: is "SSO" here in this line bringing any actual meaning?

Author: Right I will just leave group management.

- Synchronisation of groups with other EGI Collaboration Tools
- Linking of X.509 certificate DN to authenticate using a client certificate

## Linking an X.509 certificate to an EGI SSO account

> - Opening https://sso.egi.eu/admin/user
> - Selecting your new certificate to authenticate with it
> - Completing the login process using your username and password
> - Once logged, your new DN will be linked to your user account

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Open https://sso.egi.eu/admin/user
1. Select your new certificate to authenticate with it
1. Complete the login process using your username and password
1. Once logged, your new DN will be linked to your user account
```
